
LVPA -- Lost Vikings Project Archive

Originally written for https://github.com/fgenesis/lv3proj
- hence the name.


----------[ TL;DR ]------------
- Build with CMake or drop into your project (but check LVPACompileConfig.h in that case)
- Use lvpak from the commandline to create/edit/list/unpack LVPA archives
  (Open lvpak without parameters to see a short help, and see lvpak.txt for some additional info)



----------[ About ]------------

LVPA is a library and container file format optimized for games.
It features a few compression algorithms to choose from,
optional 2-stage data encryption, multiple solid blocks for coherent
data for better compression and faster loading,
and is best suited for static/pre-generated data containers.

A command line packer/unpacker (lvpak) is included.
It can deal with listfiles, which allow to specify packing settings down to each single file.
See lvpak.txt for more documentation about it.

Bindings for ttvfs (https://github.com/fgenesis/ttvfs) are included,
which allows to merge files on disk and inside LVPA containers transparently,
in a way that the embedding application does not have to care where to load its data from.

As a special feature for data safety it is possible to create
encrypted LVPA containers that can be read normally by the embedding application,
but that are not possible to extract even if the encryption key is known.
(Not by normal means, at least. "Scrambled" files are considerably
harder to unpack than just encrypted files, as long as the file names
are known only to those who created the container.)
As encryption an ARC4 variant is used, that is about 3-4x faster than the original,
and should be more secure (however, i can't proof this mathematically, sorry :) -
- if you can, drop me a mail!). Hashing is done with SHA256.
By changing a few #defines any other symmetric cipher and hashing algorithm can be used,
if a personalized (and incompatible) version is desired.

This library is dual-licensed under the zlib license or GPL v2+ (see below).

If you use this code and like it, feel free to send me an email to
googlemail.com with false.genesis@ prepended.
- that'd make me happy.
Patches/improvements are welcome!

----------[ Howto ]------------

Build project/makefiles with CMake. It has sort of sane defaults so it should build
out of the box.

$ mkdir build
$ cd build
$ cmake ..
$ make

In the default configuration it comes with LZMA, LZF, and zlib as compression
backends, lvpak (the command line packer/unpacker),
and a test binary to verify that everything works.
In this configuration, the zlib license is applicable (see below).
You can additionally:
- enable LZO and/or LZHAM as additional compression backend
- build LVPA <-> ttvfs bindings 
- configure everything to link statically (if building on windows with MSVC)

Alternatively, drop the source files into your project, include at least one compression backend,
edit the LVPA_SUPPORT_* defines in LVPACompileConfig.h, and use the build system of your choice.

-------[ Limitations ]--------

LVPA files are limited to 4 GB. They cannot grow beyond this size,
and they cannot contain files larger than 4 GB.
This will be addressed in future.

Files inside an archive will not have timestamps, ownership, or any other metadata preserved.
This is considered unnecessary information and not included by design.

For encryption, only symmetric ciphers are supported.

File names in archives should contain ASCII/Latin characters only - UTF-8 is not supported.

Adding files requires rebuilding an archive. Unchanged data are binary-copied,
which makes this process a lot faster than if they had to be recompressed.

Creating large archives requires large amounts of RAM. All data are processed in-memory first,
and then written to disk. It is still possible to create an archive in multiple steps
by appending very large files consecutively, if RAM is low.
This may be improved in future.

-------[ Portability ]--------

It is known to work on the following operating systems, in 32 and 64 bits:
- Windows (only tested on XP and up, but it should work on older versions too)
- Linux
- Mac OSX Snow Leopard + Lion (again, it probably works on older ones)
- FreeBSD

For other x86-based systems it should - if at all - only require minor changes
to some headers to work, and possibly some more additional OS-specific code in LVPATools.cpp,
if your OS's support for POSIX is as bad as on windows.
Not tested on ARM/PPC/Big endian.
The library is endian-neutral except for the ByteBuffer class and the encryption routines,
but there is code to handle big endian, so it *should* work there as well.
Run the testsuite if in doubt.

LVPA files are always little endian.


---------[ License ]----------
Copyright (C) 2011/2012 False.Genesis

This software is dual-licensed depending on the included external
libraries, which have the following licenses:

LZF  - BSD license (2-clause) or GPL v2+
LZMA - public domain
zlib - zlib license
LZO  - GPL v2+
LZHAM - MIT License
Mersenne Twister random number generator - BSD license (3-clause)

If no support for LZO is included, this library is licensed under the
zlib license.
Otherwise, LZO support makes the zlib license inapplicable, in this case
this library is licensed under the GPL v2+.

Specifically, the dual-licensing applies to all files that do not have
an explicit copyright/license boilerplate, in the following subdirectories:

include, lvpa, lvpa_ttvfs, lvpak, tests


Below both licenses for reference:

--- zlib license ----------------
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
arising from the use of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
freely, subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
   claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
   in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
   appreciated but is not required.
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
   misrepresented as being the original software.
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.
-------------------------------

--- GNU General Public License version 2 ("GPL v2+") ----

LVPA is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.
----------------------------------------------------------
